yo its Elliott Leo Lee you got strength
questions I got your answer
yo Elliott well today's question is a
text question that comes from our friend
who has one leg shorter than the other
here's a picture that he sent us the way
he describes it is one leg I think it's
his left leg sort of hikes up higher and
rotates out a bit more than the other
one so the very first thing you want to
consider is do you have a functional or
a structural leg length discrepancy that
basically means are you born with one
femur or one lower leg where the bones
are shorter than the other one or do you
have muscular imbalances on one side of
your body that's causing your hip to
hike up so I teach my string ecology
students in my advanced students how to
do muscular imbalance test to see like
we call them leg length discrepancy test
to see if it's actually a functional
discrepancy that way we can teach our
clients how to stretch the right muscles
the best thing for you to to do is just
to look in the mirror and if you notice
one of your hip bones sort of hikes up
or is higher than the other one just
look at the mirror you know your shirt
off and your pants have and sort of
notice if one hip is hiking up higher
than the other one the side that's
shorter you're going to recognize the
hiking up of the hip now that's the case
then you're you're good because it's a
muscular imbalance it's not a true like
then leg length discrepancy so generally
speaking the muscles you're going to
want to stretch just on that side are
going to be your qlo the best way to do
that hopefully you can see me instead if
this is a side that short cross that leg
and reach over the top of that same arm
you're going to stretch out the entire
side and the hip on this side right so
another thing that you're going to
recognize for the most part and again
these are all assumptions is that you're
going to rotate your hips going to
rotate forward a little bit more on that
same side that means your hip flexor is
going to be tight also now you also
mention that on your I think it's the
left side the leg externally rotates
just a bit more and you also mentioned
the tucking under of your butt right so
that you have a big panther posture like
I've described described in other videos
so the piriformis is probably a bit
tight the glutes are probably a bit
tight on that side so do like a 90 90
stretch I've showed these in my in my
bioenergetic normal video you can check
that out one of the very last stretches
is a 90 90 stretch where you cross the
front of your leg over and you lean you
want to really stretch that out you can
even foam roll it look at my foam roller
videos foam roll those deep gluteal
muscles on that side if once again it is
a functional like length discrepancy and
not structural if it's structural you're
screwed you could probably go to a an
orthopedic surgeon or something and they
will probably prescribe these these lips
that you actually put in your shoe to
balance things out a little bit all of
the pain that you're experiencing and
your low back you are a hundred percent
correct it's because you're moving in a
dysfunctional fashion with one leg
shorter than the other hopefully that
helps dude
do that self-assessment check out see if
it's a hip and if it's a qlo on that
side stretch the crap out of it
talk to you next time yo Eliot